Crystal Beal: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Fabulous. Okay, thanks.
Crystal Beal: Hi.
Crystal Beal: Can you hear me okay
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Fabulous. Okay. And I can hear you. Um, and so we're getting started at 538 p n and. Can I have you verify your name and date of birth for me.
Jerrod Johnson: Jerry Johnson 11 1979
Crystal Beal: Okay. Fabulous. I mean, are you okay with doing a visit via video chat today.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. What is and what city are you in today.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm in Port Havelock Washington
Crystal Beal: Okay. Great. Thank you so much for that you'll get asked those questions every time.
Crystal Beal: Thanks so much. Um, and then, um, my understanding is, you're on the schedule to talk about medication for tweeting substance use disorder, particularly opiate use disorder.
Crystal Beal: And so during this visit, I would ask you a bunch of questions about
Crystal Beal: Their substance use history, your medical history, your family's medical history because it's like a regular intake medical appointment and
Crystal Beal: Kind of check in on your body head to toe and then go over a treatment plan. Does that sound okay with you.
Crystal Beal: Yeah, okay. Fabulous. I'm in what
Crystal Beal: Yeah, so just getting kind of a picture of your substance use history. What substances, do you take
Jerrod Johnson: Heroin
Crystal Beal: Okay. And how many years have you been doing in here, one
Jerrod Johnson: Three years.
Crystal Beal: Two years. Okay. And on average in a day. How much do you take
Jerrod Johnson: Somewhere between a half gram and a grim. Okay.
Crystal Beal: And how do you take it when you take it.
Jerrod Johnson: I shoot it.
Crystal Beal: Okay into veins muscles popping.
Jerrod Johnson: Into my neck usually
Crystal Beal: Okay, so your, your name.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Crystal Beal: Um, and then before heroin. Did you use any pain pills.
Jerrod Johnson: oxy cotton. Yeah, okay.
Crystal Beal: And how many years did you take those
Jerrod Johnson: Five years
Crystal Beal: Okay, so maybe about seven years toll on opiates.
Jerrod Johnson: Maybe 10 years
Crystal Beal: 10 years okay and
Crystal Beal: And have you ever had an overdose.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Okay. And do you have Americana around
Jerrod Johnson: Yes. Oh, yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay, great. And do you live with someone else who knows how to use it.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah yeah
Crystal Beal: And they know where it is. Yeah.
Crystal Beal: You, you would be surprised how many little cricket all of those steps up
Jerrod Johnson: Crazy.
Crystal Beal: Okay.
Jerrod Johnson: Without having this stuff around
Crystal Beal: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: And then, um, it looks like in your intake. You said you had tried methadone before
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, I was on methadone also for
Crystal Beal: Me.
Crystal Beal: When about what year. What year was that
Jerrod Johnson: 2009 to 2015
Crystal Beal: Okay, okay.
Crystal Beal: Yeah, okay. Um, so you think
Crystal Beal: If you include the methadone, how many years do you think you've been on opiates total
Jerrod Johnson: I guess it'd be like 15 then
Jerrod Johnson: All the other
Crystal Beal: Cool. I know there it's kind of a different I recognize the difference, but just to get an idea of like how long your brains been exposed to that helps me. So thank you.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. Um, and then it looked like you had tried Suboxone a few times, at least in the past year.
Crystal Beal: Have you
Crystal Beal: Have you ever tried it before that.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, and how did it work.
Crystal Beal: For you, these past few times you tried it.
Jerrod Johnson: Okay, um, it's just, it's not. It's a, it's not a perfect thing by any means, you know, it's, it's a, it takes a lot of work along with it.
Mm hmm.
Crystal Beal: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. What do you think, you know, if I'm in primarily. That's what we do here because you know it can't do methadone through that video visit. So, um, are you thinking like, why do you think will be different this time for. Yeah.
Jerrod Johnson: Well, I'm, I'm trying. The reason why I'm doing this is I'm trying to get my daughter back
Jerrod Johnson: CPS involvement and I'm trying to get my daughter back
Crystal Beal: Yeah, how old is she,
Crystal Beal: She's 10. Okay, what's your name.
Jerrod Johnson: Taylor.
Crystal Beal: Taylor. Nice.
Crystal Beal: Okay, awesome. So you feel like maybe you have some more external motivating factors and internal gating factors. It sounds like this time around. Okay, cool. Um, alright, and then
Crystal Beal: Others substances that you take other than opiate
Jerrod Johnson: Math.
Crystal Beal: Okay, how many years have you been taking
Jerrod Johnson: 40 years probably
Crystal Beal: And on average, how much do you take
Jerrod Johnson: Alright, you're freezing alarm. Well, I don't do it every single day. But, um, I guess, on average, maybe a half gram
Crystal Beal: Okay. Do you think you do it every other day, or like how often
Jerrod Johnson: Sporadic lately I'm like once every three days, probably
Crystal Beal: Okay, okay. And when you take your message. Let me tell you take them.
Jerrod Johnson: A smoke it. OK.
Crystal Beal: OK, and then other substances.
Jerrod Johnson: Know, something else.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Any bands hours.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, I'm averaging a week how much alcohol. Do you drink.
Jerrod Johnson: None
Crystal Beal: Okay. When was the last time you had a drink.
Jerrod Johnson: Oh, gosh.
Jerrod Johnson: Maybe a couple months ago, maybe I'm not a drinker.
Crystal Beal: And they do you think it happens like once every couple of months, you might have a drink.
Jerrod Johnson: Does that sound right to you, maybe, you know, maybe once every six months.
Jerrod Johnson: Okay, well,
Crystal Beal: Alright, and marijuana
Jerrod Johnson: Though
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, alright, um, well thank you for sharing those things and then as far as, um, other treatments. I know you so you try the methadone and you try the Suboxone. Have you ever done an inpatient treatment anywhere.
Crystal Beal: Sorry, you're freezing a lot. I might turn your video off and see if we can get your I'm
Crystal Beal: Just the audio to connect. Well, let's see.
Crystal Beal: Okay.
Crystal Beal: Can you hear me okay
Crystal Beal: Hey, Jerry. Can you still hear me.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. Oh, great. Sorry. Okay, I just turn your video off and we'll see if your it'll keep you from freezing so much and we can hear each other better. Okay.
Crystal Beal: Okay, okay. And yeah, so have you ever done any inpatient treatment anywhere.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, I did a
Jerrod Johnson: Behavior modification treatment for 26 months.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Have you done anything other than that.
Crystal Beal: And without like a combination program sometime inpatient, outpatient
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, there was a six, six months of aftercare.
Crystal Beal: Afterwards. And have you ever done any other kind of outpatient care.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, I've done outpatient a couple times.
Crystal Beal: And have you ever, like gone all the way through an outpatient program and graduated
Crystal Beal: Yeah. OK, cool. And that, do you think that's been at least twice.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay, awesome. Thank you for sharing and and then
Crystal Beal: Have you had any lake. I know you want your daughter back and CPS is involved. Um, have you had other legal issues related to substance use at this point.
Yeah.
Jerrod Johnson: Okay. Oh, yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, and
Jerrod Johnson: I recently, though.
Crystal Beal: That's okay. I don't need details as just part of part of how we make the diagnosis is like asking about things like jobs and relationships and legal issues so
Crystal Beal: And it's really a technicality in order to get your documentation in order. So, um, thanks for sharing. Um, okay, and alright so thank you for sharing all that stuff. And then let's just check in about medical history stuff what medical conditions. Have you been told you have
Jerrod Johnson: Haven't really had any medical conditions.
Crystal Beal: Do you have a primary care doctor
Jerrod Johnson: Um, no, not one that I see regularly.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, and then any mental health conditions, you're aware of
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. And do you take any prescription medications.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, do you have any allergies and medications.
Jerrod Johnson: Yes sofa.
Crystal Beal: Okay, what happens when you take yourself a job.
Jerrod Johnson: I don't know. I've just always been told that has a reaction when I was an infant, I guess.
Crystal Beal: Okay, any other ones. No. Okay. And have you ever had any surgeries.
Jerrod Johnson: No. Okay.
Crystal Beal: And then what runs in your family.
Jerrod Johnson: As far as
Crystal Beal: Like health condition and mental health conditions.
Jerrod Johnson: One really that I'm aware of.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Anyone else you feeling with substance use disorders.
Crystal Beal: Oh, okay. Anyone with mental health conditions like depression or anxiety or bipolar.
Crystal Beal: though. Okay. Anyone with like medical health issues like heart disease, strokes, diabetes, cancer.
Jerrod Johnson: Okay.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, and then you personally have you have ever had any medical issues related to like substance use, like an abscess or cellulitis get an infection.
Jerrod Johnson: I have an abscess one time. Yeah. Okay.
Crystal Beal: Have you ever had an infection of your heart golf called endocarditis.
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. Okay. And do you know your HIV status.
Jerrod Johnson: Negative, I hope.
Crystal Beal: It was the last time you checked.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm probably been a couple years.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and what about your hepatitis C status.
Crystal Beal: Same okay okay so last time you checked. They were both negative, but it's been a little bad
Crystal Beal: Yeah okay awesome and
Jerrod Johnson: I'm extremely careful when it comes to my intravenous use like I always use the clean one and yeah
Crystal Beal: Great. That is awesome.
Crystal Beal: To hear that and I still totally agree with you. It's probably time to check again.
Jerrod Johnson: And but
Crystal Beal: I'm glad you're being safe. And then what about, like any sexually transmitted infections gonorrhea, chlamydia, anything like that.
Jerrod Johnson: Once upon a time, I had chlamydia, long time ago.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and last time you checked for those a couple years ago as well.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay. And have you had partners, since then.
Jerrod Johnson: Yes.
Crystal Beal: Okay. All right. Um, and then I'm checking in kind of had to tell on your body. And oh, actually, I'm sorry. Before we do that, let's just check in about your
Crystal Beal: Case of the social stuff that affects your health, which we talked about a lot of already but and the things we haven't talked about are like housing and jobs and stuff like that, um, where are you staying right now.
Jerrod Johnson: Right now I'm staying with my mom.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and how how safe and stable, is that right now for you.
Jerrod Johnson: It's safe and stable.
Crystal Beal: Go okay and then and financially. Are you having any difficulty, they paying for food or paying for your utilities electricity.
Jerrod Johnson: Will with the whole covert 19 thing. It's kind of put a stress on everybody, you know,
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah well work.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. And what were you working before the pandemic.
Jerrod Johnson: Yes.
Crystal Beal: And what were you doing for work.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm self employed.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and what do you, what, what do you do as a self employed person. Sorry.
Jerrod Johnson: Oh, mostly roofing, but I'm all those types of construction siding.
Jerrod Johnson: General carpentry. Okay.
Crystal Beal: All right. Um, and then do you know when your area is going to be able to open back up and start doing some of that stuff again.
Jerrod Johnson: Well, I guess, as soon as they let us off lockdown.
Crystal Beal: Okay, I know some of the counties are starting to like be able to go to phase two. And I think they were going to allow some
Crystal Beal: Like general contracting like you're describing, but it's only like 10 counties out of the state. I think
Crystal Beal: So out of Washington. Yeah. Mm hmm.
Crystal Beal: I'm okay.
Crystal Beal: Thank you for sharing those things and and let's just check in how to tell on your body. Have you been having any fevers, or shells.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, sweats overnight.
Jerrod Johnson: Sometimes
Crystal Beal: Okay. Any and and do you think that's primarily related to being in withdraw or do you think something else is going
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah yeah
Crystal Beal: Okay, um, any unintentional weight loss.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, any changes in your vision.
Jerrod Johnson: Know,
Crystal Beal: Any um runny nose, or like post nasal drip.
Jerrod Johnson: Just associated with withdraw.
Crystal Beal: Any pain in your teeth.
Jerrod Johnson: Know,
Crystal Beal: Any pain in your chest.
Crystal Beal: The swelling in your legs.
Crystal Beal: Though, okay. Any coughing
Crystal Beal: Coughing up any blood at all.
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. And any shortness of breath, like with activity or when you're laying fat flat, flat.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm just
Jerrod Johnson: Not really. I mean,
Jerrod Johnson: Just normal, you know,
Crystal Beal: What's okay
Crystal Beal: When you lay down
Crystal Beal: lay flat. Can you breathe. Okay.
Crystal Beal: Yeah. Great. And then do you wake up in the middle of the night, feeling short of breath.
Crystal Beal: Or Gasol they're
Crystal Beal: Great. And then, are you able to like walk up a few flights of stairs without stopping.
Crystal Beal: Oh yeah, okay.
Crystal Beal: Okay, um. All right. And then, um, any nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea not related to withdraw.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and any pain in your stomach.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and any the urinary problems pain in your bladder pain when up
Crystal Beal: Though P real frequently
Jerrod Johnson: Sometimes like in the middle of the night I wake up to pee, you know, a couple few times in the night. I don't know how normal that is
Crystal Beal: Um, it can be not uncommon as as people with prostates age because your prostates can sometimes get bigger and it can make it a little harder to get your bladder empty.
Crystal Beal: And make you a little more sensitive to emptying. And do you feel like when you pee it you can get your bladder all the way empty during the day.
Crystal Beal: Yeah yeah and and that's one of those things that getting a regular primary care doctor and like getting your annual checkup and talking about that, to me, like, the best place, probably to do that.
Crystal Beal: And there's a blood tests that they do sometimes to check on your prostate and also sometimes they actually examine it, which for some people is not great, because they put a finger and your thumb to feel your prophecy, but
Crystal Beal: It does let you know if it's getting bigger, or if there's any signs of cancer or if there's any signs of infections.
Crystal Beal: But some people choose to bypass that exam and just get the blood test or just try to treatment and that's an option too, sometimes.
Crystal Beal: Um, any, any like discharged from your genitals.
Crystal Beal: Okay, any lumps bumps rashes, or anything like that.
Jerrod Johnson: Um, I do have a cyst on my back. Okay.
Crystal Beal: How about in your general region, though, anything like that.
Jerrod Johnson: No. Oh, no, no.
Crystal Beal: Okay. And then, um, body aches.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um so joints or muscle pains or bon pain's not having any of those
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. And you said you have the sense but no other rashes, or anything on your body.
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. Any non healing wounds.
Jerrod Johnson: No.
Crystal Beal: Okay, itchy skin anywhere.
Crystal Beal: No. Okay. Any HEADACHES, CONFUSION or memory loss. Nope, feeling super thirsty.
Jerrod Johnson: Sometimes
Crystal Beal: Sometimes do
Jerrod Johnson: Be hydrated.
Crystal Beal: Yeah, how often do you think that's associated with like the Muslims. I mean, or heroin use versus like when you're not
Jerrod Johnson: Using know it's definitely because of that. Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay, um, it's interesting. We asked all these questions and a lot of them obviously can be triggered by substance use, or withdraw and but you know we'll see how you do. I speak a stabilized if if things continue to be issues for yeah you know
Crystal Beal: Any swollen lymph nodes.
Jerrod Johnson: Know,
Crystal Beal: Any easy bleeding or bruising.
Crystal Beal: Oh, okay. Um, and then I'm not sure what your reaction is to sell to do you get hives to anything else.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm not usually
Crystal Beal: OK, and then and mental health wise and he took some scoring at scoring cards and you fill out some questionnaires for us. Sorry. You couldn't
Crystal Beal: Ever called um, whatever it's called a PhD nine. It's a screening for depression and you just have a seven, which actually is like in the mile range for depression. Do you feel down depressed.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm know how I've been depressed. In the past, and I don't feel like I'm there right now.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, and then you know suicide does happen at higher rates among people with a history of depression and the substance use disorders are you having any thoughts of harming yourself.
Jerrod Johnson: Never
Crystal Beal: Okay. Have you ever attempted suicide in the past, low. Okay. Has anyone in your family killed themselves.
Crystal Beal: Well, okay, thanks for sharing all that. And then one of their sport and questionnaires you fill out first is called a GAD seven and it's a screen for anxiety and at your scores is seven on that one as well, which is also kind of mild anxiety, do you are you feeling anxious or irritable.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm not more than normal.
Crystal Beal: Okay.
Jerrod Johnson: I mean, some days, sometimes, but just depends on what's going on. Okay.
Crystal Beal: All right. And then, um,
Crystal Beal: As far as your
Crystal Beal: Question in my brain. I think we talked about all your substances, except nicotine.
Jerrod Johnson: I just smoked cigarettes. Yes.
Crystal Beal: About how many per day.
Jerrod Johnson: I'm half a pack to a pack a day.
Crystal Beal: Okay. And how many years have you been doing that.
Jerrod Johnson: Um, I just started I quit for five years and I just started
Jerrod Johnson: Two years ago when I started using again. I started smoking again.
Crystal Beal: Okay, congrats on not smoking for five years. I really like every single last cigarette smokers better for you. So, that's awesome.
Crystal Beal: And what's your interesting entering a quick again.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, yeah, definitely interested in that.
Crystal Beal: What have you done in the past to help you quit.
Jerrod Johnson: Oh, will you turn and nicotine patches.
Crystal Beal: Are you thinking you would like to try something like that. Now, or would you like to try to get
Jerrod Johnson: Jared again.
Crystal Beal: First and then try that, after
Jerrod Johnson: We do.
Jerrod Johnson: One thing at a time. Probably, yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay, that's great that's totally fine. I'm
Crystal Beal: All right. Okay.
Crystal Beal: I think that is all of my questions for you. Thank you for doing that with me. And so the the major treatment options for opiate use disorder. So for the heroin, you
Crystal Beal: There's kind of four major options. There's not taking any medication.
Crystal Beal: Which you know doesn't work very well for a lot of people. Right. So eight to nine out of every 10 people who tried to quit opiates without taking medication will go back to taking them within a year so
Crystal Beal: Yeah, statistically, it doesn't work very well and
Jerrod Johnson: Even more than that even.
Crystal Beal: Yeah, Ray. And I think, and that's because at short acting. Okay. It's really changed our brain and you have a whole bunch of extra receptors on your brain and your brain can't function normally without those receptors being filled up
Crystal Beal: And so the goal of medication late supported treatment right is to fill those receptors up so your brain can function normally and you don't have to think about
Crystal Beal: Trying to find opiates and you can focus on doing things like working towards getting your doc right distracted. So that's why
Jerrod Johnson: There was, I heard there was like an actual operation that you could get where they like go into your brain and and do something to your receptors. Is that true
Crystal Beal: I have never heard of that.
Crystal Beal: These are like microscopic things on the outside themselves and I just don't think that we have technology that would allow us to work at such a small level right
Crystal Beal: Yeah, and. But what we do have our medications that go in and fill up those receptors for us spate three different options. There's methadone or
Crystal Beal: buprenorphine like products like Suboxone which you've tried to and there's a divot job, which is a long acting injectable that one doesn't work as well as nothing on our or
Crystal Beal: Suboxone so I don't generally recommend it. It's less effective at helping people stay away from opiates. And I think that's because it doesn't really control your withdraw your cravings.
Jerrod Johnson: I've seen people fail on that.
Crystal Beal: Yeah.
Crystal Beal: And the problem with jaws, you're actually a little bit more likely to die from an overdose.
Crystal Beal: On that one, then you are with methadone or Suboxone even so it's less effective and you're more likely to die from an overdose. So
Crystal Beal: Um, if you go back to taking heroin. So, not, not a big fan to medication options or methadone spoke to me to try both before and they're almost as equally effective method on a slightly more effective than I'm smart soon.
Crystal Beal: It using smartphones, a great option.
Jerrod Johnson: Can you still hear. Oh.
Jerrod Johnson: I lost you there for a second.
Crystal Beal: Okay.
Crystal Beal: Sorry about that. Okay. What was the last thing you heard
Jerrod Johnson: You were talking about methadone or Suboxone or methadone is a little bit more effective.
Crystal Beal: Yeah but boxing's a little bit safer. So we because methadone can cause overdose and stop your breathing. We actually do kill a few more people with methadone, um,
Crystal Beal: And we don't really do that with Suboxone. And so when we look at those numbers I think Suboxone and because it's slightly see for an almost as effective as a great option and
Jerrod Johnson: I wish you guys did methadone, though, because
Jerrod Johnson: It's it does work.
Crystal Beal: It does. Yeah.
Jerrod Johnson: The transition is like the the best part about it. It's so much easier to transition from one thing to the other.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, like Suboxone
Crystal Beal: Mm hmm. Well, the nice thing is with Suboxone if you start the Suboxone, it doesn't work for you and you want to go to a methadone clinic. You don't have to wait.
Crystal Beal: Um, to go from Suboxone or methadone, like you kind of do to go from methadone or Suboxone or heroin just Suboxone and you can just start at the next day. You don't have to start feeling spec.
Jerrod Johnson: List.
Crystal Beal: Or yeah, that is nice and we can't do anything on methadone has to be given out a dispensary so
Crystal Beal: Our physical location you we can't do it. Um, but if the Suboxone here doesn't work for you and you know we can help you try to find somewhere close by.
Crystal Beal: That is doing methadone and the Suboxone though will plug up those opiate receptors and it does hang out in those receptors better than any other opiates. So if you have like heroin around
Crystal Beal: In your brain, it's going to kick it out. And because the buprenorphine part of the Suboxone and kicks out the heroin, but only turns on that receptor, about half halfway
Crystal Beal: You do feel really sick rate that precipitated withdraw. Yeah, and that's not because of the you know Suboxone has buprenorphine and the locks on our in our candidate.
Crystal Beal: It's not the Narcan you get almost none of that in your body. If you take it the way it's prescribed that's really there to keep you from melting it down and injecting it um, because when you inject melted down Suboxone the Narc Canada is absorbed and you do go into withdraw and
Crystal Beal: It makes you feel sick is actually that buprenorphine. Because it just doesn't turn those receptors on as strongly as heroin or methadone does right
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, and that's one thing I was gonna ask you if it would be possible.
Jerrod Johnson: For like the first like couple days. Would it be possible to get some of the sub you Tex just through the transition period.
Crystal Beal: No, it shouldn't it. It's not because it won't make a difference because it's the buprenorphine as what's on the sub you text just like it's what's in the Suboxone and that's what makes you feel sick. If you don't wait long enough. It's not the naloxone
Crystal Beal: Um, yeah. Because if again. Then the locks and really like you absorb almost none of it. If you take it under your tongue like you're supposed to. It's only a few melted down and injected by you absorb it.
Jerrod Johnson: Wow, I didn't know that.
Crystal Beal: Yeah yeah
Crystal Beal: It's literally just there to keep people from injecting buprenorphine because you can get high when you inject people are being without
Crystal Beal: Injected not something believe I interrupted you can
Crystal Beal: Yeah, yeah, so we we don't do non combination products. We don't prescribe like 70 texture products without an art can component unless you have a documented.
Crystal Beal: Half lactic reaction in our camp, which basically means we have to get hospital and medical records from somewhere that observed you take our cannon and have a life threatening allergic reaction.
Crystal Beal: And that's kind of the standard of care and expectation around the country in general.
Crystal Beal: I can't give you some medication for like nausea and vomiting and anxiety.
Crystal Beal: And sleep. I can give you some medicines that can help with the symptoms and you know of withdrawal and stuff like that to maybe make it a little bit more comfortable and they, you know,
Crystal Beal: They helped a little bit. They don't help a ton of it, but I'm happy to try to do that to Jamie, a little more comfortable for you.
Crystal Beal: When was the last time you use heroin.
Jerrod Johnson: Today,
Crystal Beal: That what time
Jerrod Johnson: Noon.
Crystal Beal: Okay, so yeah, so you'll definitely like usually want to wait at least 12 hours. So right now I would expect, you're not feeling super uncomfortable yet like I would think, maybe you're starting to get like MC and think about it and stuff but not like sick.
Crystal Beal: And so in general, we want you to feel kind of crummy right so at least 12 hours.
Jerrod Johnson: So this would be like when I wake up in the morning.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah yeah
Crystal Beal: Yeah, yeah. And you know, you want to like you want to probably be having hot and cold flashes sweaty runny eyes lottery knows crappy Tommy like you want at least three significant withdrawal symptoms. Does that make sense. I
Crystal Beal: You know, everyone everyone's body is a little bit different. But those are some of the common ones right
Crystal Beal: And like I said, I can give you some medicine that may help a little bit with sleep and may help a little bit with nausea and may help a little bit with anxiety.
Crystal Beal: And then, and usually like we just do those supportive medications for like the first week or two, where we're trying to get you on on stabilize on the Suboxone we don't continue those afterwards so
Crystal Beal: Um, and if you if we gave legalize on the thoughts of oxidative you still feel like you need them either.
Crystal Beal: We might need to be on methadone, because the Suboxone dose can't get high enough for you or there may be something else going on with your body and you will need to see a primary care doctor
Crystal Beal: Questions about any of that.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Um, so yeah. Generally, you would probably want to try to start your medicine, maybe tomorrow morning and avoid heroin. Until then,
Crystal Beal: I'm and I usually have people. I usually do the strips and I usually do the eight milligram strips. Those are usually the easiest to find in pharmacies and you cut your first one in half.
Crystal Beal: And you take half a stroke and you give it 45 minutes and might not help you feel much better. But the reason you're giving it 45 minutes and not taking a whole strip is because I want to know if it makes you feel worse, right.
Crystal Beal: Right, if you take that four milligram strips and you feel worse. You're in precipitate withdraw and it was too soon. And if you had taken eight milligrams that precipitate withdrawal would be way worse.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah, it doesn't hurt to take even like two milligrams
Crystal Beal: Yeah, I usually only do two milligrams when I'm transitioning people from methadone and long acting opiate like
Crystal Beal: It's a lot harder to avoid that precipitate withdrawal than it is with the shorter acting ones. And if you're really nervous about it and you want to cut it into quarters and do too. I'm totally fine with them. I'm
Crystal Beal: I'm. But in the absence of like kind of routine methadone. I think you'll probably be okay for
Crystal Beal: And but to affords fine give it 45 minutes if it did not make you feel worse. You can repeat the dose.
Crystal Beal: Right. And if it makes you feel worse. You want to wait and you want to wait at least six hours before you take another adult and you can take some of those supportive medications, you know, for like nada and symptoms and stuff like that. In the interim,
Crystal Beal: Questions about that.
Jerrod Johnson: No, no, I think we covered it.
Crystal Beal: Okay, I write enough for you to take up to I'm usually do 12 milligrams. I'm going to read for you. I'm going to write up to 16 so you were on 16 in the past, um, you know, so choose trips a day.
Crystal Beal: You were on 16 in the past, you have like a pretty long history with opiates and you've been on methadone and
Crystal Beal: A lot of people will feel better on eight to 12 milligrams a day. Um, but, you know, for a lot of people will we're going up further to like 24 maybe even 32 milligrams a day.
Crystal Beal: I'm at 24 to 32 milligrams, we really think we like have blocked all the receptors and even if we give you more. It doesn't make you feel any better. So if we get there and you're not feeling
Crystal Beal: Like you're withdrawn cravings are controlled for a full 24 hours, then it's really methadone is where we're headed. Um,
Crystal Beal: And so, um, yeah, you can take two to four milligrams repeat it in 45 minutes and you can kind of do that, up to a maximum of 60 milligrams. So if you take more than two strips or 60 milligrams a day it'll run out before I see you again.
Crystal Beal: But, um, however much you taken the first 24 hours you know whether you take eight or 16 or 12. The next morning when you wake up, just take that entire amount in the morning.
Jerrod Johnson: Before No good.
Crystal Beal: Yeah, so it's like if you say you try it tomorrow and you end up taking 12 milligrams. So strip and a half. And that's what helps you feel better. Right. And the next morning when you wake up you'll take a stroke and a half and you'll do that every day, till I see you again.
Jerrod Johnson: Look good
Jerrod Johnson: So make sense. Yep. Yep.
Crystal Beal: Perfect. Okay. And then most common side effects for people are nasza and headaches and for most people, those actually get better after a couple of weeks they get stabilized and they feel better and other really common side effects and or constipation, which is true of any opiate
Crystal Beal: And then, you know, all opiates also affect
Crystal Beal: Fertility and libido and erections so long acting opiates like methadone or Suboxone affect them less than short acting opiates like heroin, but that can potentially be an issue as well.
Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Questions about any of that.
Jerrod Johnson: Um, no.
Crystal Beal: Okay, and so we should have a pharmacy on file for you. Um, so I would send your prescription electronically to that pharmacy and I would write you enough and medications to get you
Crystal Beal: Through to Wednesday of next week. And so at our program.
Crystal Beal: We do our follow up visits weekly for the first month, you've probably done this before, but we do them in during group so Wednesdays at 530 we have group.
Crystal Beal: And with Serena our who runs our group and you and I would like, do a little breakout session and check in about your medicine and change your dose, if we need to. And then I write your refills.
Jerrod Johnson: Good.
Crystal Beal: Questions about that.
Crystal Beal: Okay. And so I'm just like most of oxygen programs. If you might not have medicine early lose your medicine or lose, why you're not getting a paper a prescription social get lost.
Crystal Beal: And we can't do any early refills, and not just because the DEA so strongly regulates buprenorphine.
Crystal Beal: It's not that we want you to suffer. It's just that we wouldn't be able to prescribe for people if we did and and then the other important things, you know,
Crystal Beal: You'll get urine drug screens in the mail and want to make sure you don't open that package until you're actually in front of the camera with the technician and don't even open the outer package and will open all of that in front of them.
Crystal Beal: And the important thing to know is like
Crystal Beal: I'm substance use is not a reason for me to stop prescribing for you. It's like a reason to have conversations is the reason maybe to see you more often.
Crystal Beal: I'm happy with your counselor more things like that. The reason I can't keep prescribing I'm
Crystal Beal: Like immediately is if you are testing negative for buprenorphine. So if you're not taking your Suboxone or you're just dipping a Suboxone strip in the urine and not actually getting it.
Crystal Beal: Metabolized by your body again because of these are strongly regulates diversion. We can't keep prescribing um
Crystal Beal: But other
Crystal Beal: Yeah. Other stuff like positives for other substances and stuff like that. I think, you know, our it's a harm reduction program, we're here to help you and support you and find ways to help you work through with that I'm not doing yeah alright cool questions about any of that.
Crystal Beal: Nope. Okay, so what will happen next is, I will send your prescription electronically.
Crystal Beal: Um, and you will get an email from me later and just with kind of a summary of next steps and the things you need to do. And you'll want to put in your calendar, write it down electronically.
Crystal Beal: Set some kind of reminder that our next appointment will be 530 Wednesday. If you don't need to come this week, but the 27th. I'm
Jerrod Johnson: Still looks good.
Crystal Beal: And that is the group. And that's where you get your prescriptions. You don't want to miss that. And unfortunately our system has no appointment reminders, um,
Jerrod Johnson: So Wednesday the 27th at 530 yeah
Crystal Beal: 30 Pacific
Crystal Beal: Pacific Standard Time. Yeah, yeah. I missed an appointment. The first time because like as a doctor because I was like, where's my reminder. So that's how I found that out. I'm so sorry about that.
Crystal Beal: And then there'll be a few other things, um, as far as like checking in with your counselor and stuff like that. But there will be instructions in the email.
Crystal Beal: Okay. And if you have any questions, you just talk to your care coordinator and who should be kind of the person you've been helping you get set up and stuff like that.
Crystal Beal: And still be able to say email them and check in with them. If you have other questions, and they can always get a hold of us if there's something that you need.
Crystal Beal: Okay. Any other questions for me, Jared.
Jerrod Johnson: No, Mom. So you're sending the prescription over tonight.
Yeah.
Jerrod Johnson: Pharmacy closes.
Crystal Beal: I'm not sure. Either you could call him and check I um
Crystal Beal: I don't even know right now because I can't. Usually the
Jerrod Johnson: Picture open till eight
Jerrod Johnson: Perfect. Essentially, yeah.
Crystal Beal: Perfect. So we'll put that in and and you should be able to go get that tonight.
Okay.
Crystal Beal: And yeah and but I'll get fed into this soon as we get off. Um, and then we'll go from there. Okay.
Crystal Beal: All right. It was really Lovely to meet you.
Jerrod Johnson: Yeah. Nice to meet you too.
Crystal Beal: I look forward to see you next week.
Jerrod Johnson: All right.
Jerrod Johnson: Thank you.
Yeah.
Crystal Beal: Okay, this is Dr. Bill we finished our face to face time at 6:19pm
Crystal Beal: I'm
Crystal Beal: Like you said, his composite for his previous was for risk of 14 protective factors of five over to risk of 25 to nice history of overdose and suicide.
Crystal Beal: We reviewed his dad seven is PQ nine so he can put four mile generalized anxiety and mild major depressive disorder, and he does have a nicotine. Use Disorder estimate use disorder and an opiate use disorder.
Crystal Beal: And we reviewed this p&p which showed
Crystal Beal: I reviewed it today. He had a Suboxone eight milligram prescription for a 10 steps for a five day supply last written march 25 and prior to that he'd had similar prescriptions December 4 November 18
Crystal Beal: And so
Crystal Beal: No other controlled substances scene.
Crystal Beal: He appeared awake, alert and no acute distress, while we have the video available and
Crystal Beal: He had it like normal phallic a traumatic head with no like me so crusting or Iraqi men and rashes, or lesions seen on the skin of his face.
Crystal Beal: And know period oral site gnosis. He's spoken complete sentences with no audible are visible increase work of breathing like gasping wheezing nasal flaring or super clinically retractions and
Crystal Beal: Let's see.
Crystal Beal: He was oriented to himself into the date to the appointment, he answered questions appropriately. He got a linear thought process. You seem to have
Crystal Beal: Moderate insight.
Crystal Beal: And judgment around his conditions.
Crystal Beal: He had a speech pattern that was a regular rate and rhythm. No pressure speech.
Crystal Beal: And did they inject into that as regular right didn't see any stigmata disease there.
Crystal Beal: OK.
Crystal Beal: And buprenorphine naloxone eight to milligram films take
Crystal Beal: One half film at Q ID PR and withdraw with a not to exceed 60 milligrams, or four slash four milligrams and 24 hours within one week supply
Crystal Beal: Respiratory rate within normal limits cranial nerves seem to be functioning within normal limits as well.
Crystal Beal: He didn't appear to be
Crystal Beal: Anything more than mild withdrawal currently didn't appear to be diabetic didn't seem to have a lot of psycho motor agitation.
Crystal Beal: Either didn't seem to have any redness or swelling of the eyes are discharged from that either. Okay, what's our physical exam.
Crystal Beal: And I think that's everything we need for the supporting there's no reason to keep this recording anything out of the usual